.examples/podman/README.md, before:

# Run LibreBooking with Podman

This is an example how to run LibreBooking under podman container management.
Below examples show both the quick way for running it directly with [podman
run](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-run.1.html) command and
the more permanent way
[using systemd](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-systemd.unit.5.html)
which persists across reboots and is good for production.

Both of the setups create private network for libreboot, and persistent storage
for the congigs.

# Podman Run for dev and testing

Change the variables to your liking, and run the podman commands. If you want
to do it just quicker, network is not necessary and volumes can be just given
as local directories using `-v ~/dir:/path/in/container:z` instead of the first
four commands.

```sh
podman network create librebooking

podman run --name mariadb-lb \
  --detach \
  --replace \
  --network librebooking \
  --hostname db \
  --env-file db.env \
  -v db-conf:/config:U \
  -p 3306:3306 \
  docker.io/linuxserver/mariadb:10.6.13

podman run --name lb \
  --detach \
  --replace \
  --hostname librebooking \
  --network librebooking \
  --env-file lb.env \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  --volume lb-images.volume:/var/www/html/Web/uploads/images \
  --volume lb-reservation.volume:/var/www/html/Web/uploads/reservation \
  --volume ~/librebooking-conf:/config:U \
  docker.io/librebooking/librebooking:develop
```

# Production way with systemd

This method persists over reboots.
[Automatic updates](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-auto-update.1.html)
for container images are not enabled in this example. Try it also, it's handy.

## Create network file

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/librebooking.network<<EOF 
[Unit]
Description=Librebooking Network

[Network]
Subnet=192.168.30.0/24
Gateway=192.168.30.1
Label=app=librebooking
EOF
```

## create volume for DB

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/mariadb-lb.volume<<EOF
[Volume]
Driver=local
Label=app=librebooking
EOF
```

## Create DB container conf

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/mariadb-lb.container<<EOF
[Unit]
Description=MariaDB container

[Container]
Image=docker.io/linuxserver/mariadb:10.6.13
Environment=MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=db_root_pwd
Environment=MYSQL_USER=lb
Environment=MYSQL_PASSWORD=lb-test
Environment=MYSQL_DATABASE=db
Environment=PUID=1000
Environment=PGID=1000
Volume=mariadb-lb.volume:/config:U
Network=librebooking.network
PublishPort=3306:3306
Label=app=librebooking
# AutoUpdate=registry

[Service]
Restart=on-failure
EOF
```

## Create Images Volume

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/lb-images.volume<<EOF
[Volume]
Driver=local
Label=app=librebooking
EOF
```

## Create Reservations Volume

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/lb-reservation.volume<<EOF
[Volume]
Driver=local
Label=app=librebooking
EOF
```

## Create LB container file

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/lb.container<<EOF
[Unit]
Description=Librebooking container
Requires=mariadb-lb.service
After=mariadb-lb.service
 
[Container]
HostName=librebooking
Image=docker.io/librebooking/librebooking:develop
Network=librebooking.network
Environment=LB_DATABASE_NAME=db
Environment=LB_DATABASE_USER=lb
Environment=LB_DATABASE_PASSWORD=lb-test
Environment=LB_DATABASE_HOSTSPEC=systemd-mariadb-lb
Environment=LB_INSTALL_PASSWORD=installme
Environment=LB_LOGGING_FOLDER=/var/log/librebooking
Environment=LB_LOGGING_LEVEL=DEBUG
Environment=LB_LOGGING_SQL=false
Environment=LB_DEFAULT_TIMEZONE=Europe/Helsinki
PublishPort=8080:8080
Label=app=librebooking
Volume=lb-images.volume:/var/www/html/Web/uploads/images
Volume=lb-reservation.volume:/var/www/html/Web/uploads/reservation
Volume=%h/librebooking-conf:/config:U
# AutoUpdate=registry
# User=1000:1000


[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

[Service]
Restart=on-failure
EOF
```

## Create ports.conf to override apache port

```sh
cat >> ~/lb-ports.conf<<EOF
# If you just change the port or add more ports here, you will likely also
# have to change the VirtualHost statement in
# /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf

Listen 8080

<IfModule ssl_module>
        Listen 8443
</IfModule>

<IfModule mod_gnutls.c>
        Listen 8443
</IfModule>
EOF
```

## Create virtual server conf to override apache port

```sh
cat >> ~/ lb-000-default.conf<<EOF
<VirtualHost *:8080>
    ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
    DocumentRoot /var/www/html
    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>
EOF
```

## Create permanent conf dir for LB

```sh
mkdir ~/librebooking-conf
```

## Start the services

Now we have all the config files done for systemd. Next we reload the daemon, and start the services:

```sh
systemctl --user daemon-reload
systemctl --user start mariadb-lb
systemctl --user start lb
```

## Enable autostart at boot

To make the systemd start the containers automatically at boot you need to
enable lingering the the user and enable the services:

```sh
sudo loginctl enable-linger $USER
systemctl --user enable --now mariadb-lb
systemctl --user enable --now lb
```

## Logs

If you want to see the logs, you can use `podman logs ...` or use `journalctl --user -u lb`. You can also modify the conf file in ~/librebooking-conf/config.php, and restart the service with `systemctl --user restart lb`.

# Connect to Librebooking

At this point the system is running at http://<hostname>:8080.

*Note: I tested the config on Fedora 43.*

Commit message:

Align docker and podman cli examples

.examples/podman/README.md, after:

# Run LibreBooking with Podman

## Using the command line: local access (testing)

This setup is meant for accessing the application from your local network.
It features:

* A librebooking container reachable at <http://localhost:8080>
* A persistent storage for the database and librebooking configuration files

Adapt files `db.env`and `lb.env` to your needs

Create a container network

```sh
podman network create librebooking
```

Start the containers

```sh
podman container run \
  --name librebooking-db \
  --detach \
  --replace \
  --network librebooking \
  --hostname db \
  --volume librebooking-db_conf:/config:U \
  --env-file db.env \
  docker.io/linuxserver/mariadb:10.6.13

podman run \
  --name librebooking-app \
  --detach \
  --replace \
  --network librebooking \
  --publish 8080:8080 \
  --volume librebooking-app_conf:/config:U \
  --env-file lb.env \
  docker.io/librebooking/librebooking:develop
```

## Using systemd: local access (production)

This method persists over reboots.
[Automatic updates](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-auto-update.1.html)
for container images are not enabled in this example. Try it also, it's handy.

## Create network file

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/librebooking.network<<EOF 
[Unit]
Description=Librebooking Network

[Network]
Subnet=192.168.30.0/24
Gateway=192.168.30.1
Label=app=librebooking
EOF
```

## create volume for DB

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/mariadb-lb.volume<<EOF
[Volume]
Driver=local
Label=app=librebooking
EOF
```

## Create DB container conf

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/mariadb-lb.container<<EOF
[Unit]
Description=MariaDB container

[Container]
Image=docker.io/linuxserver/mariadb:10.6.13
Environment=MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=db_root_pwd
Environment=MYSQL_USER=lb
Environment=MYSQL_PASSWORD=lb-test
Environment=MYSQL_DATABASE=db
Environment=PUID=1000
Environment=PGID=1000
Volume=mariadb-lb.volume:/config:U
Network=librebooking.network
PublishPort=3306:3306
Label=app=librebooking
# AutoUpdate=registry

[Service]
Restart=on-failure
EOF
```

## Create Images Volume

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/lb-images.volume<<EOF
[Volume]
Driver=local
Label=app=librebooking
EOF
```

## Create Reservations Volume

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/lb-reservation.volume<<EOF
[Volume]
Driver=local
Label=app=librebooking
EOF
```

## Create LB container file

```sh
cat >> ~/.config/containers/systemd/lb.container<<EOF
[Unit]
Description=Librebooking container
Requires=mariadb-lb.service
After=mariadb-lb.service
 
[Container]
HostName=librebooking
Image=docker.io/librebooking/librebooking:develop
Network=librebooking.network
Environment=LB_DATABASE_NAME=db
Environment=LB_DATABASE_USER=lb
Environment=LB_DATABASE_PASSWORD=lb-test
Environment=LB_DATABASE_HOSTSPEC=systemd-mariadb-lb
Environment=LB_INSTALL_PASSWORD=installme
Environment=LB_LOGGING_FOLDER=/var/log/librebooking
Environment=LB_LOGGING_LEVEL=DEBUG
Environment=LB_LOGGING_SQL=false
Environment=LB_DEFAULT_TIMEZONE=Europe/Helsinki
PublishPort=8080:8080
Label=app=librebooking
Volume=lb-images.volume:/var/www/html/Web/uploads/images
Volume=lb-reservation.volume:/var/www/html/Web/uploads/reservation
Volume=%h/librebooking-conf:/config:U
# AutoUpdate=registry
# User=1000:1000


[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

[Service]
Restart=on-failure
EOF
```

## Create ports.conf to override apache port

```sh
cat >> ~/lb-ports.conf<<EOF
# If you just change the port or add more ports here, you will likely also
# have to change the VirtualHost statement in
# /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf

Listen 8080

<IfModule ssl_module>
        Listen 8443
</IfModule>

<IfModule mod_gnutls.c>
        Listen 8443
</IfModule>
EOF
```

## Create virtual server conf to override apache port

```sh
cat >> ~/ lb-000-default.conf<<EOF
<VirtualHost *:8080>
    ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
    DocumentRoot /var/www/html
    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>
EOF
```

## Create permanent conf dir for LB

```sh
mkdir ~/librebooking-conf
```

## Start the services

Now we have all the config files done for systemd. Next we reload the daemon, and start the services:

```sh
systemctl --user daemon-reload
systemctl --user start mariadb-lb
systemctl --user start lb
```

## Enable autostart at boot

To make the systemd start the containers automatically at boot you need to
enable lingering the the user and enable the services:

```sh
sudo loginctl enable-linger $USER
systemctl --user enable --now mariadb-lb
systemctl --user enable --now lb
```

## Logs

If you want to see the logs, you can use `podman logs ...` or use `journalctl --user -u lb`. You can also modify the conf file in ~/librebooking-conf/config.php, and restart the service with `systemctl --user restart lb`.

# Connect to Librebooking

At this point the system is running at http://<hostname>:8080.

*Note: I tested the config on Fedora 43.*
